Welcome guys.

Starting from this lecture we will concentrate on Airflow and its components only and as

a first move, I am going to explain the user interface of Apache Airflow.

The built-in UI is a notable part of Apache Airflow.

Airflow’s rich user interface makes it easy to visualize pipelines running in production,

monitor their progress and troubleshoot issues.

It allows you to see the status of your jobs, their underlying code, and furthermore, you

can perform different actions on that jobs too.

So Airflow’s UI is a thing which if operated correctly, will make your DAG managing task

a way more easy.

Having said this let’s start exploring it.

Let me first check if our containers are up and running.

Yes they are.

Go to the browser at localhost:8080 This is the admin index or you can say the

admin’s main page that shows us the status of all DAGs at a glance.

Also, this page provides us the necessary primary-operations that we can perform on

our DAGs.

We have a navigation bar here, with some navigation links.

In this DAGs table, currently we have only 1 DAG called ‘tutorial’.

This is default DAG that came along with puckel’s project.

As we move along in this course, we will create new DAGs and those DAGs will automatically

get listed in this list.

This DAG table has few columns.

Let’s understand them one-by-one.

First is this ‘edit button’.

Clicking on, we got s ome information about tutorial DAG like, whether this DAG is paused

or not, ours is paused, means it won’t run automatically as per the schedule, then DAG

file location, owner na me and some other stuff.

Next, we have a toggle switch, with ‘On’ and ‘Off’ label on it.

This toggle switch basically shows that whether your DAG is enabled or disabled i.e. ifit is running

or not.

Clicking on this switch, you can change the status of your DAG from enabled to disabled

and vice-versa.

For its use-case, suppose you have a running DAG, and you are planning for the maintenance

on some system, then you might want your DAG to be stopped from running.

That thing, you can easily do it from here.

With just a single click.

Next column is the ‘DAG ID’ i.e., tutorial.

Some of you might wonder that why it is showing DAG ID as ‘tutorial’ instead of ‘tuto’

- the file name that we had in our DAGs folder was ‘tuto.py’.

Guys actually tuto.py is the name of DAG definition file and not the name or ID of DAG itself.

This tutorial is the unique id provided to this DAG in its definition file.

You will get to know about it when I will open this DAG definition and explain it line

by line. There we have mentioned tutorial as its DAG id.

Clicking on this DAG ID will redirect you to the different views of your DAG executings.

We are also going to cover this whole ‘View’ thing soon.

Next column is ‘Schedule’.

Schedule is more or less similar to the concept you would have used when scheduling a Cron.

Schedule column indicates the interval of time after which a DAG will be triggered.

Like in this case ‘tutorial’ DAG will be triggered after every one day.

The schedule interval time is also set in the DAG definition file.

If I click on Schedule, we got a table of DAG Runs.

Currently a DAG ran only for 1 time so 1 row.

This table provides us information like its state – it may be running, failed, success.

DAG execution date - when the DAG was run.

Then is run id.

If the run_id starts with manual keyword it means the DAG was manually triggered, if it

starts with scheduled keyword it means it ran automatically as per defined interval.

Coming out of schedule, next we have ‘Owner’ column,

specifying the owner of this particular DAG which is ‘airflow’.

Then we have a column ‘Recent tasks’ containing few columns in its trunk.

Recent tasks show a summary of the tasks that were present in the latest DAG run.

If a DAG is currently running then it will show its live tasks status or if there are

no active runs, then it will show the status of the tasks from the most recent DAG run.

Each of the circle in this trunk represents a different status for tasks.

If I hover over these circles, we have tips like success, running, failed then skipped ,up_for_reschedule

and many more. .

A quick add-on, there is no name assigned to this second last bubble.

This represents no_status.

When your tasks are not scheduled, in-fact not even queued, then they would be listed

in no_status bubble.

Afterwards we have ‘Last run’ which shows us the date and time when the recent DAG was

run.

Then is ‘DAG Runs’ column.

DAG runs provide us the status of a complete DAG or you can say of the whole pipeline.

Inside DAG runs we have three little circles, each for DAG ‘success’, ‘running’

and ‘failed’ states.

Where recent tasks column shows the status of different tasks within a DAG, this DAG

runs column, shows the status of DAG as a whole.

To understand it better, suppose you have a DAG containing three tasks.

And out of them, two are successfully completed and the third one is yet in running state.

In this situation the Recent tasks’ column will show us two circles like this.

First circle depicts that 2 tasks are successful and next circle will show 1 in running state.

Meanwhile, DAG runs tab will show you the status as ‘running’.

No matter the two tasks from this DAG have completed successfully.

It will only show the ‘success’ status when all the tasks in this DAG will have a

successful completion.

Okay, so at last, we have some quick links to hop around the UI.

Clicking on any of this link will take you to that particular view for this DAG.

Like ‘Tree view’, ‘Graph view’, ‘Task duration’ and few more links.

The detailed tour of each of these links I am going to cover in later in this section.

But let me cover these 2, here in this video only.

Refresh and delete.

‘Refresh or Reload’ button is important and is quite different from our browser’s

‘Reload’ button.

Suppose you have made some changes in your DAG file.

Now those changes may take some time to get automatically reflected back in UI.

But in case if you wish to reflect those changes promptly in Airflow UI, then you can manually

do so by clicking on this Reload button. It says DAG tutorial is now fresh as a daizy.

So you can consider this reload button as a hard reload button.

The last is ‘Delete DAG’ button, clicking on which will delete your selected DAG and

will erase all the data related to it like DAG runs, its metadata, delete everything

but except the logs.

Logs won’t get deleted.

So guys this is just the overview of UI.

I know since this is quite a new thing so getting familiar to it might take some time

, but don’t worry as when we start doing practicals then

these things will be on your fingertips.

See you guys in the next lecture.

