Welcome to this bonus lecture, in this class I will demonstrate how to create ‘Gmail

App Passwords’.

Guys in the store sales project we had set the SMTP configurations for Gmail servers.

And in the SMTP password, I had entered the 16-digit App password other than the regular

Gmail account password.

In this video, you are going to see how you can generate this 16-digit password specific

to your application.

Giving you a brief idea of what a Gmail ‘App Password’ is.

Guys an app password is a 16-digit passcode that gives a non-Google app or device, the

permission to access your Google Account.

Using App Password, you do not need to divulge your personal Gmail password and complete

access to your Google Account.

Instead, you can enter an App Password once per app or device, and no need to memorize password

as it is for one time use only.

But yeah, you can only generate App Passwords with the Gmail accounts that have 2-Step Verification

turned on.

If you don’t have 2-Step Verification on, don’t worry I will show you how to do so.

so let’s start.

First of all, you will of course need a working Gmail account.

If you don’t have one then go and signup for that.

After that, login to your Gmail account.

I am already logged in to.

First click on this ‘Google Apps’ button and go to the ‘Account’ settings.

On the left navigation panel, choose ‘Security’.

Here under the ‘Signing in to Google’ panel, as you can see my 2-Step Verification

is turned Off so first we need to enable it.

Here it shows how 2-Step Verification works.

Click on ‘Get Started’, it will ask you to enter your Gmail password.

here it will ask you to choose a second verification step to keep your account more

secure.

You can choose from 3 options here.

‘A prompt on your device’, means whenever you will sign in from a new device, Google

will prompt a sign in confirmation prompt on your selected device.

Or other way you can choose from ‘Security Key’, a small physical device used for signing

in) or the OTPs sent over text or voice call.

So…

I will go with prompts.

My device is already selected.

Click on ‘Try it Now’.

Google has sent a prompt on my mobile phone asking me that are you trying to sign in from

another computer.

I will click on ‘Yes’ on my mobile phone.

Almost there!

Now it will ask you to enter your backup option in case if you lose your phone.

So enter your backup phone number, you will get a verification code in that number.

Enter the OTP

Turn on 2-Step Verification?

yeah, turn it on.

Great with this you have enabled the 2-Step Verification for your Google account.

Now what’s next?

Creating the App specific Passwords.

Go back to Security.

Now our 2-Step Verification is On.

Click on ‘App passwords’.

see, since we have enabled the 2-Step Verification, so Google has sent a

prompt on the device.

Guys from this panel you can create the specific App Passwords for your applications.

First you need to select the app for which you are creating the 16-digit password.

I will select Custom app name and enter the application name.

let it be… airflow.

And generate.

Excellent.

We have created the app password for gmail.

You can now use this password in Airflow_SMTP_password property of SMTP configurations.